# CV-Generator
Tool for generating LaTeX-based CVs starting from LaTeX content stored into XML files.

# Overview
CV-Generator takes a set of XML files as input and produces a LaTeX-based CV, which can be compiled with any LaTeX engine. The tool is written in Java and Maven has been used as dependencies tool.

## CV Structure
The tool generates CV with a (almost) fixed structure, having:
* an education section, including all the grades (e.g., Master degree);
* a work experience section, reporting all the professional experience, in cronologiacal order;
* a project section, describing in details all the project which the person has been involved in;
* a skill section, collecting all the (hard and soft) skill;
* a language section, including all the spoken/written languages with the corresponding levels (e.g., mother tongue)
* a publication section, list all the (academic) publications;
* an authorization section, which is needed to allow the HR office to process the information.

Additionally, a _special_ section reports all the personal information (e.g., email address).

The tool is capable of generating CVs in two languages: Italian and English, by means of a specific parameter; using a flag, the structure can be modified by hiding the project section, as well as some personal information can be hidden by means of an option.

All the details about sections are described in the [dedicated section.](docs/sections.md)

## Folder Structure
CV-Generator folder structure is the following:

```
.
├── config/
│   ├── app.properties
│   └── log.properties
├── content/
├── cv-generator
├── it/
├── lib/
├── log/
├── result/
└── template/
```

The `config` folder inludes the configuration files for the tool; there are two files:
- `app.properties`, which encloses _name_ and _surname_ to be used in the CV
- `log.propoerties`, which reports the log configuration. **Please, do not edit this file, unless you are extremely sure about what you are changing**.

The `content` folder contains all the XML files used to build sections up. All the details can be found in the [proper section](docs/sections.md).

All the application class files are located in the `it` folder, whereas all the libraries (as jar files) are inside the `lib` folder.

The `log` folder is self-explaining :)

The rendered template is stored by CV-Generator in the `result` folder as a LaTeX document (just need to compile it), whereas the template can be found in the `template` folder. Velocity is used as template engine; additional information about templates is described in the [template section](docs/template.md)

# Usage
Maven is used to manage dependancies; to make all the libraries available to the application (outside the IDE), please make sure to run the following command:

    mvn process-sources

Such a command simply copies all the dependancies (as jar files) into the `target/classes/lib` folder. Once this command has been executed, the content of the `target/classes` folder can be copied to any location and CV-Generator will be ready to be used.

To use CV generator just run

    ./cv-generator [options]

The command syntax follows:

    usage: cv-generator [-l <language>] [-p] [-s]
    Generate a CV choosing language and format.
        -l,--lang <language>   Set CV language; available values are: it, en
        -p,--privacy           Hide sensible information, such as phone number
                               and born date
        -s,--short             Generate short CV version

By using this command will require to separately access the `result` folder and proceed to compile the LaTeX document, since it only renders the template according to parameters. To simply the LaTeX compilation, a Makefile is available inside `result` to easily generate the corresponding pdf file; the command to execute is `make pdf`.